Add alpha support for SVE2.1 (#257)
ARM-software/acle: main/acle.md

   svbfloat16_t svmls_lane[_bf16](svbfloat16_t zda, svbfloat16_t zn,
                                  svbfloat16_t zm, uint64_t imm_idx);
   ```

#### BFMUL

BFloat16 floating-point multiply vectors.

 ``` c
   svbfloat16_t svmul[_bf16]_m(svbool_t pg, svbfloat16_t zdn, svbfloat16_t zm);
   svbfloat16_t svmul[_bf16]_x(svbool_t pg, svbfloat16_t zdn, svbfloat16_t zm);
   svbfloat16_t svmul[_bf16]_z(svbool_t pg, svbfloat16_t zdn, svbfloat16_t zm);
   svbfloat16_t svmul[_n_bf16]_m(svbool_t pg, svbfloat16_t zdn, bfloat16_t zm);
   svbfloat16_t svmul[_n_bf16]_x(svbool_t pg, svbfloat16_t zdn, bfloat16_t zm);
   svbfloat16_t svmul[_n_bf16]_z(svbool_t pg, svbfloat16_t zdn, bfloat16_t zm);

   svbfloat16_t svmul_lane[_bf16](svbfloat16_t zn, svbfloat16_t zm,
                                  uint64_t imm_idx);
   ```

### SVE2.1 instruction intrinsics

The functions in this section are defined by the header file
 [`<arm_sve.h>`](#arm_sve.h) when `__ARM_FEATURE_SVE2p1` is defined.

Some instructions overlap with the SME and SME2 architecture extensions and
are additionally available in Streaming SVE mode when __ARM_FEATURE_SME is
non-zero or __ARM_FEATURE_SME2 are non-zero.

> For convenience, these variants are listed in the following section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For convenience, the intrinsics for these instructions are listed in the following section.
```

  uint8x16_t sveorqv[_u8](svbool_t pg, svuint8_t zn);
  uint8x16_t svorqv[_u8](svbool_t pg, svuint8_t zn);
  ```

#### DUPQ

Broadcast indexed element within each quadword vector segment

``` c
   // Variants are also available for:
   // _s8, _u16, _s16, _u32, _s32, _u64, _s64
   // _bf16, _f16, _f32, _f64
   svuint8_t svdup_laneq[_u8](svuint8_t zn, uint64_t imm_idx);
   ```

#### EXTQ

Extract vector segment from each pair of quadword segments.

``` c
   // Variants are also available for:
   // _s8, _s16, _u16, _s32, _u32, _s64, _u64
   // _bf16, _f16, _f32, _f64
   svuint8_t svextq[_u8](svuint8_t zdn, svuint8_t zm, uint64_t imm);
   ```

#### LD1D, LD1W

Contiguous zero-extending load to quadword (single vector).

``` c
   // Variants are also available for:
   // _u32, _s32
   svfloat32_t svld1uwq[_f32](svbool_t, const float32_t *ptr);
   svfloat32_t svld1uwq_vnum[_f32](svbool_t, const float32_t *ptr, int64_t vnum);

   // Variants are also available for:
   // _u64, _s64
   svfloat64_t svld1udq[_f64](svbool_t, const float64_t *ptr);
   svfloat64_t svld1udq_vnum[_f64](svbool_t, const float64_t *ptr, int64_t vnum);
   ```

#### LD1Q

> Gather Load Quadword.

Reviewer: Maybe add a blank line after the heading, for consistency with other entries.

   ```

#### UMAXQV, SMAXQV, FMAXQV, UMINQV, SMINQV, FMINQV

Max/Min reduction of quadword vector segments.

``` c
   // Variants are also available for:
   // _s8, _u16, _s16, _u32, _s32, _u64, _s64
   // _f16, _f32, _f64
   uint8x16_t svmaxqv[_u8](svbool_t pg, svuint8_t zn);
   uint8x16_t svminqv[_u8](svbool_t pg, svuint8_t zn);
   ```

#### FMAXNMQV, FMINNMQV

Max/Min recursive reduction of quadword vector segments.

``` c
   // Variants are also available for  _f32, _f64
   float16x8_t svmaxnmqv[_f16](svbool_t pg, svfloat16_t zn);
   float16x8_t svminnmqv[_f16](svbool_t pg, svfloat16_t zn);
   ```

#### PMOV

``` c
   // Variants are available for:
   // _s8, _u16, _s16, _s32, _u32, _s64, _u64
   svbool_t svpmov_lane[_u8](svuint8_t zn, uint64_t imm);

   // Variants are available for:
   // _s8, _s16, _u16, _s32, _u32, _s64, _u64
   svbool_t svpmov[_u8](svuint8_t zn);

   // Variants are available for:
   // _s16, _s32, _u32, _s64, _u64
   svuint16_t svpmov_lane[_u16]_m(svuint16_t zd, svbool_t pn, uint64_t imm);

   // Variants are also available for:
   // _s8, _u16, _s16, _u32, _s32, _u64, _s64
   svuint8_t svpmov_u8_z(svbool_t pn);
   ```

#### ST1D, ST1W

> Contiguous store of single vector operand. It is truncating store from quadword.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contiguous store of single vector operand, truncating from quadwords.
```

   svbfloat16_t svmls_lane[_bf16](svbfloat16_t zda, svbfloat16_t zn,
                                  svbfloat16_t zm, uint64_t imm_idx);
   ```

#### BFMUL

BFloat16 floating-point multiply vectors.

 ``` c
   svbfloat16_t svmul[_bf16]_m(svbool_t pg, svbfloat16_t zdn, svbfloat16_t zm);
   svbfloat16_t svmul[_bf16]_x(svbool_t pg, svbfloat16_t zdn, svbfloat16_t zm);
   svbfloat16_t svmul[_bf16]_z(svbool_t pg, svbfloat16_t zdn, svbfloat16_t zm);
   svbfloat16_t svmul[_n_bf16]_m(svbool_t pg, svbfloat16_t zdn, bfloat16_t zm);
   svbfloat16_t svmul[_n_bf16]_x(svbool_t pg, svbfloat16_t zdn, bfloat16_t zm);
   svbfloat16_t svmul[_n_bf16]_z(svbool_t pg, svbfloat16_t zdn, bfloat16_t zm);

   svbfloat16_t svmul_lane[_bf16](svbfloat16_t zn, svbfloat16_t zm,
                                  uint64_t imm_idx);
   ```

### SVE2.1 instruction intrinsics

The functions in this section are defined by the header file
 [`<arm_sve.h>`](#arm_sve.h) when `__ARM_FEATURE_SVE2p1` is defined.

Some instructions overlap with the SME and SME2 architecture extensions and
are additionally available in Streaming SVE mode when __ARM_FEATURE_SME is
non-zero or __ARM_FEATURE_SME2 are non-zero.

> For convenience, these the intrinsics for these instructions  are listed in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For convenience, the intrinsics for these instructions are listed in
```

``` c
   // Variants are also available for:
   // _u32, _s32
   svfloat32_t svld1uwq[_f32](svbool_t, const float32_t *ptr);
   svfloat32_t svld1uwq_vnum[_f32](svbool_t, const float32_t *ptr, int64_t vnum);

   // Variants are also available for:
   // _u64, _s64
   svfloat64_t svld1udq[_f64](svbool_t, const float64_t *ptr);
   svfloat64_t svld1udq_vnum[_f64](svbool_t, const float64_t *ptr, int64_t vnum);
   ```

#### LD1Q

Gather Load Quadword.

``` c
   // Variants are also available for:
   // _u8, _u16, _s16, _u32, _s32, _u64, _s64
   // _bf16, _f16, _f32, _f64
   svint8_t svld1q_gather[_u64base]_s8(svbool_t pg, svuint64_t zn);
   svint8_t svld1q_gather[_u64base]_offset_s8(svbool_t pg, svuint64_t zn, int64_t offset);
   svint8_t svld1q_gather_[u64]offset[_s8](svbool_t pg, const int8_t *base, svuint64_t offset);

   // Variants are also available for:
   // _u16, _u32, _s32, _u64, _s64
   // _bf16, _f16, _f32, _f64
   svint16_t svld1q_gather_[u64]index[_s16](svbool_t pg, const int16_t *base, svuint64_t index);
   svint8_t svld1q_gather[_u64base]_index_s8(svbool_t pg, svuint64_t zn, int64_t index);
   ```

#### LD2Q, LD3Q, LD4Q

> Contiguous load two, three or four quadword structures.

Reviewer 2: missing comma after "three" - always use the oxford/serial comma to reduce ambiguity https://confluence.arm.com/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=345213178

Reviewer 3: Fixed in #326

  void *__arm_sc_memchr(void *s, int c, size_t n);
```

## SVE2.1 functions

The functions in this section are defined by the header file
 [`<arm_sve.h>`](#arm_sve.h) when `__ARM_FEATURE_SVE2p1` is defined.

Some instructions overlap with the SME and SME2 architecture extensions and
are additionally available in Streaming SVE mode when __ARM_FEATURE_SME is
non-zero or __ARM_FEATURE_SME2 are non-zero.
For convenience, these variants are tagged with `[SVE2.1 or SME]` and
`[SVE2.1 or SME2]` respectively.

### SVE2.1 data-processing instructions.

#### ADDQV, FADDQV

Unsigned/FP add reduction of quadword vector segments.

``` c
  // Variants are also available for _u16, _u32, _u64,
  // _f16, _f32, _f64
  uint8x16_t svaddqv[_u8](svbool_t pg, svuint8_t zn);
  ```

#### ANDQV, EORQV, ORQV

Reduction of quadword vector segments.

``` c
  // Variants are also available for:
  // _s8, _u16, _s16, _u32, _s32, _u64, _s64
  uint8x16_t svandqv[_u8](svbool_t pg, svuint8_t zn);
  uint8x16_t sveorqv[_u8](svbool_t pg, svuint8_t zn);
  uint8x16_t svorqv[_u8](svbool_t pg, svuint8_t zn);
  ```

#### FCLAMP, SCLAMP, UCLAMP

Clamp to minimum/maximum vector.

``` c

>   // Variants are available for:

Reviewer 4: A `_bf16` variant, perhaps?

  // _s8, _u8, _s16, _u16, _s32, _u32, _s64, _u64 [SVE2.1 or SME]
  // _f16, _f32, _f64 [SVE2.1 or SME2]
  svfloat16_t svclamp[_f16](svfloat16_t op, svfloat16_t min, svfloat16_t max);
  ```

#### CNTP

Set scalar to count from predicate-as-counter. ``vl`` is expected to be 2 or 4.

 ``` c
   // Variants are also available for _c16, _c32 and _c64 [SVE2.1 or SME2]
   uint64_t svcntp_c8(svcount_t pnn, uint64_t vl);
   ```

#### UDOT, SDOT, FDOT (vectors)

Dot-product (2-way).

 ``` c
   // All the intrinsics below are [SVE2p1 or SME2]
   // Variants are also available for _s32_s16_s16 and _u32_u16_u16
   svfloat32_t svdot[_f32_f16_f16](svfloat32_t zda, svfloat16_t zn, svfloat16_t zm);
   svfloat32_t svdot_lane[_f32_f16_f16](svfloat32_t zda, svfloat16_t zn, svfloat16_t zm,
                                uint64_t imm_idx);
   ```

#### EXTQ

Extract vector segment from each pair of quadword segments.

 ``` c
   // Variants are also available for:
   // _s8, _s16, _u16, _s32, _u32, _s64, _u64
   // _bf16, _f16, _f32, _f64
   svuint8_t svextq_lane[_u8](svuint8_t zdn, svuint8_t zm, uint64_t imm);
   ```

#### LD1D, LD1W

Contiguous zero-extending load to quadword (single vector).

 ``` c

>    svuint32_t svld1uw_u128[_u32](svbool_t, const uint32_t *ptr);

Author: I choose to do option 1. 
Let me know if that is as you expected.

>    svuint32_t svld1uw_u128[_u32](svbool_t, const uint32_t *ptr);

Author: I also updated the ST1D and ST1W store to quadwords.

>    svuint32_t svld1uw_u128[_u32](svbool_t, const uint32_t *ptr, int64_t vnum);

Author: Missing vnum:
svuint32_t svld1uw_u128_vnum[_u32](svbool_t, const uint32_t *ptr, int64_t vnum);

                                    int64_t vnum);

   // Variants are also available for _s32 and _f32
   svuint32x2_t svld1[_u32]_x2(svcount_t png, const uint32_t *rn);
   svuint32x4_t svld1[_u32]_x4(svcount_t png, const uint32_t *rn);
   svuint32x2_t svld1_vnum[_u32]_x2(svcount_t png, const uint32_t *rn,
                                    int64_t vnum);
   svuint32x4_t svld1_vnum[_u32]_x4(svcount_t png, const uint32_t *rn,
                                    int64_t vnum);

   // Variants are also available for _s64 and _f64
   svuint64x2_t svld1[_u64]_x2(svcount_t png, const uint64_t *rn);
   svuint64x4_t svld1[_u64]_x4(svcount_t png, const uint64_t *rn);
   svuint64x2_t svld1_vnum[_u64]_x2(svcount_t png, const uint64_t *rn,
                                    int64_t vnum);
   svuint64x4_t svld1_vnum[_u64]_x4(svcount_t png, const uint64_t *rn,
                                    int64_t vnum);
   ```

#### LD1Q

Gather Load Quadword.

 ``` c
   // Variants are also available for:
   // _u64base_u8, _u64base_u16, _u64base_s16, _u64base_u32, _u64base_s32,
   // _u64base _u64, _u64base_s64
   // _u64base_bf16, _u64base_f16, _u64base_f32, _u64base_f64

>    svint8_t svld1q_gather[_u64base_s8](svbool_t pg, svint64_t zn, const void *rm);

Author: I imagine we should do the same for the ST1Q scatter quadrword, correct?

>    svint8_t svld1q_gather[_u64base_s8](svbool_t pg, svint64_t zn, const void *rm);

Reviewer: Yeah, same thing there.

   svuint16x4_t svldnt1_vnum[_u16]_x4(svcount_t png, const uint16_t *rn,
                                      int64_t vnum);

   // Variants are also available for _s32 and _f32
   svuint32x2_t svldnt1[_u32]_x2(svcount_t png, const uint32_t *rn);
   svuint32x4_t svldnt1[_u32]_x4(svcount_t png, const uint32_t *rn);
   svuint32x2_t svldnt1_vnum[_u32]_x2(svcount_t png, const uint32_t *rn,
                                      int64_t vnum);
   svuint32x4_t svldnt1_vnum[_u32]_x4(svcount_t png, const uint32_t *rn,
                                      int64_t vnum);

   // Variants are also available for _s64 and _f64
   svuint64x2_t svldnt1[_u64]_x2(svcount_t png, const uint64_t *rn);
   svuint64x4_t svldnt1[_u64]_x4(svcount_t png, const uint64_t *rn);
   svuint64x2_t svldnt1_vnum[_u64]_x2(svcount_t png, const uint64_t *rn,
                                      int64_t vnum);
   svuint64x4_t svldnt1_vnum[_u64]_x4(svcount_t png, const uint64_t *rn,
                                      int64_t vnum);
   ```

#### UMAXQV, SMAXQV, FMAXQV, UMINQV, SMINQV, FMINQV

Max/Min reduction of quadword vector segments.

 ``` c
   // Variants are also available for:

>    // _s8, _u16, _s16, _u32, _s32, _u64, _s64

Reviewer 5: It looks like no _bf16 support for any QV instruction, for now in the specification.

   // _bf16, _f16, _f32, _f64

>    uint8x16_t svmaxqv[_u8]_m(svbool_t pg, svuint8_t zn);

Reviewer 5: and here, no _m, _x, _z, because the operation doesn't merge the result into the source vector operand.

   uint8x16_t svmaxqv[_u8]_z(svbool_t pg, svuint8_t zn);
   uint8x16_t svmaxqv[_u8]_x(svbool_t pg, svuint8_t zn);

   uint8x16_t svminqv[_u8]_m(svbool_t pg, svuint8_t zn);
   uint8x16_t svminqv[_u8]_z(svbool_t pg, svuint8_t zn);
   uint8x16_t svminqv[_u8]_x(svbool_t pg, svuint8_t zn);
   ```

#### FMAXNMQV, FMINNMQV

Max/Min recursive reduction of quadword vector segments.

 ``` c
   // Variants are also available for  _f32, _f64

>    float16x8_t svmaxnmqv[_f16]_m(svbool_t pg, svfloat16_t zn);

Reviewer 5: as we agreed,  those should not contain any _m, _x, or _z, because the operation doesn't merge the result into the source vector operand.

   svcount_t svptrue_c8();
   svcount_t svpfalse_c(void);
   ```

#### REVD

Reverse doublewords in elements.

 ``` c
   // All the intrinsics below are [SVE2.1 or SME]
   // Variants are available for:
   // _s8, _s16, _u16, _s32, _u32, _s64, _u64
   svuint8_t svrevd[_u8]_m(svuint8_t zd, svbool_t pg, svuint8_t zn);
   svuint8_t svrevd[_u8]_z(svbool_t pg, svuint8_t zn);
   svuint8_t svrevd[_u8]_x(svbool_t pg, svuint8_t zn);
   ```
#### SQCVTN, SQCVTUN, UQCVTN

Multi-vector saturating extract narrow and interleave.

 ``` c
   // All the intrinsics below are [SVE2.1 or SME2]
   // Variants are also available for _u16[_s32]_x2 and _u16[_u32]_x2
   svint16_t svqcvtn_s16[_s32]_x2(svint32x2_t zn);
   ```

#### SQRSHRN, SQRSHRUN, UQRSHRN

Multi-vector saturating rounding shift right narrow and interleave.

``` c
   // All the intrinsics below are: [SVE2.1 or SME2]
   // Variants are also available for _u16[_s32]_x2 and _u16[_u32]_x2
   svint16_t svqrshrn_s16[_s32]_x2(svint32x2_t zn, uint64_t imm);
   ```

#### ST1D, ST1W

Contiguous store of single vector operand. It is truncating store from quadword.

 ``` c

   // Variants are also available for:
   //  s128_vnum[_s32]

>    void svst1w_u128_vnum[_u32](svbool_t pg, uint32_t *ptr, uint64_t vnum,

Author: s/ uint64_t vnum,/ int64_t vnum/g

   void svst4q_vnum[_u8](svbool_t pg, uint8_t *rn, int64_t vnum, svuint8x4_t zt);
   ```

#### ST2Q, ST3Q, ST4Q

Contiguous store.

 ``` c
   // Variants are also available for:
   // _s8 _u16, _s16, _u32, _s32, _u64, _s64
   // _bf16, _f16, _f32, _f64
   void svst2q[_u8](svbool_t pg, uint8_t *rn, svuint8x2_t zt);
   void svst2q_vnum[_u8](svbool_t pg, uint8_t *rn, int64_t vnum, svuint8x2_t zt);
   void svst3q[_u8](svbool_t pg, uint8_t *rn, svuint8x3_t zt);
   void svst3q_vnum[_u8](svbool_t pg, uint8_t *rn, int64_t vnum, svuint8x3_t zt);
   void svst4q[_u8](svbool_t pg, uint8_t *rn, svuint8x4_t zt);
   void svst4q_vnum[_u8](svbool_t pg, uint8_t *rn, int64_t vnum, svuint8x4_t zt);
   ```

#### TBLQ

Programmable table lookup within each quadword vector segment (zeroing).

 ``` c
   // Variants are also available for:
   // _s8, _u16, _s16, _u32, _s32, _u64, _s64
   // _bf16, _f16, _f32, _f64
   svuint8_t svtblq[_u8](svuint8_t zn, svuint8_t zm);
   ```

#### TBXQ

Programmable table lookup within each quadword vector segment (merging).

 ``` c
   // Variants are also available for:
   // _s8, _u16, _s16, _u32, _s32, _u64, _s64
   // _bf16, _f16, _f32, _f64

>    svuint8_t svtbxq[_u8](svuint8_t zn, svuint8_t zm);

Reviewer 6: Hi @CarolineConcatto, I think this needs a third parameter similar to what we do for SVE2's tbx instruction:

svuint8_t svtbx_u8(svuint8_t passthru, svuint8_t zn, svuint8_t zm);

because this is a merging operation and unchanged elements of the destination register are merged in.

  void *__arm_sc_memchr(void *s, int c, size_t n);
```

## SVE2.1 functions

The functions in this section are defined by the header file
 [`<arm_sve.h>`](#arm_sve.h) when `__ARM_FEATURE_SVE2p1` is defined.

Some instructions overlap with the SME and SME2 architecture extensions and
are additionally available in Streaming SVE mode when __ARM_FEATURE_SME is
non-zero or __ARM_FEATURE_SME2 are non-zero.
For convenience, these variants are tagged with `[SVE2.1 or SME]` and
`[SVE2.1 or SME2]` respectively.

### SVE2.1 data-processing instructions.

#### ADDQV, FADDQV

> Unsigned/FP add reduction of quadword vector segments.

Reviewer 7: Addition is the same regardless of signed vs unsigned. Can we have a _s{16,32,64} variant?

Reviewer 7: And also i think this needs _u8 and _s8?

Author: Hi George,
I am not sure we should add the signed types, the spec is specific writing it is for unsigned types
https://developer.arm.com/documentation/ddi0602/2023-09/SVE-Instructions/ADDQV--Unsigned-add-reduction-of-quadword-vector-segments-?lang=en
It cast all the types to unsigned.

   svuint16x4_t svld1[_u16]_x4(svcount_t png, const uint16_t *rn);
   svuint16x2_t svld1_vnum[_u16]_x2(svcount_t png, const uint16_t *rn,
                                    int64_t vnum);
   svuint16x4_t svld1_vnum[_u16]_x4(svcount_t png, const uint16_t *rn,
                                    int64_t vnum);

   // Variants are also available for _s32 and _f32
   svuint32x2_t svld1[_u32]_x2(svcount_t png, const uint32_t *rn);
   svuint32x4_t svld1[_u32]_x4(svcount_t png, const uint32_t *rn);
   svuint32x2_t svld1_vnum[_u32]_x2(svcount_t png, const uint32_t *rn,
                                    int64_t vnum);
   svuint32x4_t svld1_vnum[_u32]_x4(svcount_t png, const uint32_t *rn,
                                    int64_t vnum);

   // Variants are also available for _s64 and _f64
   svuint64x2_t svld1[_u64]_x2(svcount_t png, const uint64_t *rn);
   svuint64x4_t svld1[_u64]_x4(svcount_t png, const uint64_t *rn);
   svuint64x2_t svld1_vnum[_u64]_x2(svcount_t png, const uint64_t *rn,
                                    int64_t vnum);
   svuint64x4_t svld1_vnum[_u64]_x4(svcount_t png, const uint64_t *rn,
                                    int64_t vnum);
   ```

#### LD1Q

> Gather Load Quadword.

Reviewer 7: There is only an unscaled variant of this instruction, so maybe don't have both offset and index?

Reviewer: For the other SVE load and store intrinsics, we tried to provide a consistent interface and set of addressing modes.  So the deciding factor wasn't so much whether the call mapped to a single instruction, but whether the underlying instruction could easily emulate the mode.  “Single instruction” is a bit of nebulous concept anyway for loads and stores, since a single C address expression might need several operations to compute.

Since scaling is just a shift left, I think it's worth providing both index and offset variants.

 ``` c

   // All the intrinsics below are [SVE2.1 or SME2]
   svfloat32_t svbfmlslb[_f32](svfloat32_t zda, svbfloat16_t zn, svbfloat16_t zm);
   svfloat32_t svbfmlslb_lane[_f32](svfloat32_t zda, svbfloat16_t zn,
                                    svbfloat16_t zm, uint64_t imm_idx);

   svfloat32_t svbfmlslt[_f32](svfloat32_t zda, svbfloat16_t zn, svbfloat16_t zm);
   svfloat32_t svbfmlslt_lane[_f32](svfloat32_t zda, svbfloat16_t zn,
                                    svbfloat16_t zm, uint64_t imm_idx);
   ```

#### PEXT

Transform a predicate-as-counter to a predicate (pair).

 ``` c
   // Variants are also available for _c16, _c32 and _c64 [SVE2.1 or SME2]
   svbool_t svpext_lane_c8(svcount_t pnn, uint64_t imm);
   svboolx2_t svpext_lane_c8_x2(svcount_t pnn, uint64_t imm);

   ```

#### PMOV

 ``` c
   // Variants are available for:
   // _s8, _s16, _u16, _s32, _u32, _s64, _u64
   svbool_t svpmov_lane[_u8](svuint8_t zn, uint64_t imm);

   // Variants are available for:
   // _s16, _s32, _u32, _s64, _u64
   svuint16_t svpmov_lane[_u16]_m(svuint16_t zd, svbool_t pn, uint64_t imm);

   // Variants are also available for:
   // _s8, _u16, _s16, _u32, _s32, _u64, _s64

>    svuint8_t svpmov_lane_u8_z(svbool_t pn);

Author: s/ svuint8_t svpmov_lane_u8_z(svbool_t pn);/ svuint8_t svpmov_u8_z(svbool_t pn);/

   void svstnt1_vnum[_u16_x4](svcount_t png, uint16_t *rn, int64_t vnum,
                              svuint16x4_t zt);

   // Variants are also available for _s32_x2 and _f32_x2
   void svstnt1[_u32_x2](svcount_t png, uint32_t *rn, svuint32x2_t zt);
   void svstnt1_vnum[_u32_x2](svcount_t png, uint32_t *rn, int64_t vnum,
                              svuint32x2_t zt);

   // Variants are also available for _s32_x4 and _f32_x4
   void svstnt1[_u32_x4](svcount_t png, uint32_t *rn, svuint32x4_t zt);
   void svstnt1_vnum[_u32_x4](svcount_t png, uint32_t *rn, int64_t vnum,
                              svuint32x4_t zt);

   // Variants are also available for _s64_x2 and _f64_x2
   void svstnt1[_u64_x2](svcount_t png, uint64_t *rn, svuint64x2_t zt);
   void svstnt1_vnum[_u64_x2](svcount_t png, uint64_t *rn, int64_t vnum,
                              svuint64x2_t zt);

   // Variants are also available for _s64_x4 and _f64_x4
   void svstnt1[_u64_x4](svcount_t png, uint64_t *rn, svuint64x4_t zt);
   void svstnt1_vnum[_u64_x4](svcount_t png, uint64_t *rn, int64_t vnum,
                              svuint64x4_t zt);
   ```

#### ST1Q

> Scatter store quadwords.

Reviewer 7: There is only an unscaled version of this instruction? So maybe don't have both index and offset?

   svuint32x4_t svld1_vnum[_u32]_x4(svcount_t png, const uint32_t *rn,
                                    int64_t vnum);

   // Variants are also available for _s64 and _f64
   svuint64x2_t svld1[_u64]_x2(svcount_t png, const uint64_t *rn);
   svuint64x4_t svld1[_u64]_x4(svcount_t png, const uint64_t *rn);
   svuint64x2_t svld1_vnum[_u64]_x2(svcount_t png, const uint64_t *rn,
                                    int64_t vnum);
   svuint64x4_t svld1_vnum[_u64]_x4(svcount_t png, const uint64_t *rn,
                                    int64_t vnum);
   ```

#### LD1Q

Gather Load Quadword.

 ``` c
   // Variants are also available for:
   // _u8, _u16, _s16, _u32, _s32, _u64, _s64
   // _bf16, _f16, _f32, _f64
   svint8_t svld1q_gather[_u64base]_s8(svbool_t pg, svuint64_t zn);
   svint8_t svld1q_gather[_u64base]_offset_s8(svbool_t pg, svuint64_t zn, int64_t offset);
   svint8_t svld1q_gather[_u64base]_index_s8(svbool_t pg, svuint64_t zn, int64_t index);
   svint8_t svld1q_gather_[u64]offset[_s8](svbool_t pg, const int8_t *base, svuint64_t offset);

   // Variants are also available for:
   // _u16, _u32, _s32, _u64, _s64
   // _bf16, _f16, _f32, _f64

>    svint16_t svld1q_gather_[u64]index[_s16](svbool_t pg, const int16_t *base, svuint64_t index);

Author: svuint64_t index should it be svint64_t index?

   svfloat32_t svbfmlslb_lane[_f32](svfloat32_t zda, svbfloat16_t zn,
                                    svbfloat16_t zm, uint64_t imm_idx);

   svfloat32_t svbfmlslt[_f32](svfloat32_t zda, svbfloat16_t zn, svbfloat16_t zm);
   svfloat32_t svbfmlslt_lane[_f32](svfloat32_t zda, svbfloat16_t zn,
                                    svbfloat16_t zm, uint64_t imm_idx);
   ```

#### PEXT

Transform a predicate-as-counter to a predicate (pair).

 ``` c
   // Variants are also available for _c16, _c32 and _c64 [SVE2.1 or SME2]
   svbool_t svpext_lane_c8(svcount_t pnn, uint64_t imm);
   svboolx2_t svpext_lane_c8_x2(svcount_t pnn, uint64_t imm);

   ```

#### PMOV

Move predicate to/from vector. ``pmov`` for element size _u8 or _s8 only accepts
immediate zero.

 ``` c
   // Variants are available for:
   // _s8, _s16, _u16, _s32, _u32, _s64, _u64
   svbool_t svpmov_lane[_u8](svuint8_t zn, uint64_t imm);

   // Variants are available for:
   // _s8, _s16, _u16, _s32, _u32, _s64, _u64
   // _bf16, _f16, _f32, _f64
   svuint8_t svpmov_lane[_u8]_m(svuint8_t zd, svbool_t pn, uint64_t imm);
   svuint8_t svpmov_lane[_u8]_z(svbool_t pn, uint64_t imm);

>    svuint8_t svpmov_lane[_u8]_x(svbool_t pn, uint64_t imm);

Reviewer 8: Hi Carol,
we should change the  _z and _x prototypes to have the type as mandatory and not optional: svpmov_lane_u8

   svcount_t svpfalse_c(void);
   ```

#### REVD

Reverse doublewords in elements.

 ``` c
   // All the intrinsics below are [SVE2.1 or SME]
   // Variants are available for:
   // _s8, _s16, _u16, _s32, _u32, _s64, _u64
   // _bf16, _f16, _f32, _f64
   svuint8_t svrevd[_u8]_m(svuint8_t zd, svbool_t pg, svuint8_t zn);
   svuint8_t svrevd[_u8]_z(svbool_t pg, svuint8_t zn);
   svuint8_t svrevd[_u8]_x(svbool_t pg, svuint8_t zn);
   ```
#### SQCVTN, SQCVTUN, UQCVTN

Multi-vector saturating extract narrow and interleave.

 ``` c
   // All the intrinsics below are [SVE2.1 or SME2]
   // Variants are also available for _u16[_s32]_x2 and _u16[_u32]_x2
   svint16_t svqcvtn_s16[_s32]_x2(svint32x2_t zn);
   ```

#### SQRSHRN, SQRSHRUN, UQRSHRN

Multi-vector saturating rounding shift right narrow and interleave.

``` c
   // All the intrinsics below are: [SVE2.1 or SME2]
   // Variants are also available for _u16[_s32]_x2 and _u16[_u32]_x2
   svint16_t svqrshrn_s16[_s32]_x2(svint32x2_t zn, uint64_t imm);
   ```

#### ST1D, ST1W

Contiguous store of single vector operand. It is truncating store from quadword.

 ``` c
   // Variants are also available for:
   // _u32, _s32

>    void svst1uwq[_f32](svbool_t, const float32_t *ptr, svfloat32_t data);

Reviewer: Sorry for the very late comment, but I think we should drop the `u` from these names.  In the loads it stands for “unsigned”, but the signedness doesn't matter here, since we're simply truncating the quadwords to 32 bits.

Same for `svst1udq`.

   // Variants are also available for _s64_x4 and _f64_x4
   void svstnt1[_u64_x4](svcount_t png, uint64_t *rn, svuint64x4_t zt);
   void svstnt1_vnum[_u64_x4](svcount_t png, uint64_t *rn, int64_t vnum,
                              svuint64x4_t zt);
   ```

#### ST1Q

Scatter store quadwords.

 ``` c
   // Variants are also available for:
   // _u8, _u16, _s16, _u32, _s32, _u64, _s64
   // _bf16, _f16, _f32, _f64
   void svst1q_scatter[_u64base]_s8(svbool_t pg, svuint64_t zn, svint8_t data);
   void svst1q_scatter[_u64base]_offset_s8(svbool_t pg, svuint64_t zn, int64_t offset, svint8_t data);
   void svst1q_scatter[_u64base]_index_s8(svbool_t pg, svuint64_t zn, int64_t index, svint8_t data);
   void svst1q_scatter_[u64]offset[_s8](svbool_t pg, const uint *base, svuint64_t offset, svint8_t data);

   // Variants are also available for:
   // _u16, _u32, _s32, _u64, _s64
   // _bf16, _f16, _f32, _f64
   void svst1q_scatter_[u64]index_s16(svbool_t pg, const int16_t *base, svuint64_t index, svint16_t data);
   ```

#### ST2Q, ST3Q, ST4Q

Contiguous store.

 ``` c
   // Variants are also available for:
   // _s8 _u16, _s16, _u32, _s32, _u64, _s64
   // _bf16, _f16, _f32, _f64

>    void svst2q[_u8](svbool_t pg, uint8_t *rn, svuint8x2_t zt);

Reviewer: The type is meant to vary with the suffix, so it's `uint8_t *` for the `[_u8]` function shown, and would be `int8_t *` for the `[_s8]` version.

  svint8x2_t svuzpq[_s8_x2](svint8x2_t zn) __arm_streaming;

  // Variants are also available for _u8_x4, _u16_x4, _s16_x4, _f16_x4,
  // _bf16_x4, _u32_x4, _s32_x4, _f32_x4, _u64_x4, _s64_x4 and _f64_x4
  svint8x4_t svuzpq[_s8_x4](svint8x4_t zn) __arm_streaming;
  ```

### Streaming-compatible versions of standard routines

ACLE provides the following streaming-compatible functions,
with the same behavior as the standard C functions that they
are named after. All of the functions have external linkage.

``` c
  void *__arm_sc_memcpy(void *dest, const void *src, size_t n)
    __arm_streaming_compatible;

  void *__arm_sc_memmove(void *dest, const void *src, size_t n)
    __arm_streaming_compatible;

  void *__arm_sc_memset(void *s, int c, size_t n)
    __arm_streaming_compatible;

  void *__arm_sc_memchr(void *s, int c, size_t n)
    __arm_streaming_compatible;
```

### SVE2.1 and SME2 instruction intrinsics

The functions in this section are defined by either the header file
 [`<arm_sve.h>`](#arm_sve.h) or [`<arm_sme.h>`](#arm_sme.h)
when `__ARM_FEATURE_SVE2.1` or `__ARM_FEATURE_SME2` is defined, respectively.

> Because these instructions overlap between the SME2 and SVE2.1 when using in

Reviewer: Yeah, tricky.  It's not really possible to express the restrictions directly using attributes.  How about something like:

These intrinsics can only be called from non-streaming code if `__ARM_FEATURE_SVE2p1` is defined.  They can only be called from streaming code if the appropriate SME feature macro is defined (see next paragraph).  They can only be called from streaming-compatible code if they could be called from both non-streaming code and streaming code.

And then drop the attributes from the function declarations.

Streaming SVE mode they need the function attribute `__arm_streaming` or
`__arm_streaming_compatbible` and `__ARM_FEATURE_SME2` defined. When NOT in
Streamining SVE mode the function attribute is not needed.

Most function in this section are SME2 or SVE2.1. However some are available in
SME. For convinience the ones available in SME will be tagged in the function
with `[SME]`.

#### UCLAMP, SCLAMP, FCLAMP

Clamp to minimum/maximum vector.

``` c
  // Variants are also available for:

>   //  _s8, _u8, _s16, _u16, _s32, _u32, _f32, [SME]

Reviewer: `_f32` is SME2 only, but `_s64` and `_u64` are SME.

  // _s64, _u64 and _f64
  svfloat16_t svclamp[_f16](svfloat16_t op, svfloat16_t min, svfloat16_t max)
    __arm_streaming_compatible;
  ```

#### CNTP

Set scalar to count from predicate-as-counter. ``vl`` is expected to be 2 or 4.

``` c
  // Variants are also available for _c16, _c32 and _c64
  uint64_t svcntp_c8(svcount_t pnn, uint64_t vl) __arm_streaming;
  ```

#### UDOT, SDOT, FDOT (vectors)

Multi-vector dot-product (2-way)

``` c
  // Variants are also available for _s32_s16 and _u32_u16
  svfloat32_t svdot[_f32_f16](svfloat32_t zda, svfloat16_t zn,
                              svfloat16_t zm)
    __arm_streaming_compatible;

> 

Reviewer: It would be good to keep the original:

```
#### UDOT, SDOT, FDOT (indexed)

Multi-vector dot-product (2-way)
```

here.

  ```

The `svuzpq` intrinsics operate on quad-words, but for convenience accept all
element types.

``` c
  // Variants are also available for _u8_x2, _u16_x2, _s16_x2, _f16_x2,
  // _bf16_x2, _u32_x2, _s32_x2, _f32_x2, _u64_x2, _s64_x2 and _f64_x2
  svint8x2_t svuzpq[_s8_x2](svint8x2_t zn) __arm_streaming;

  // Variants are also available for _u8_x4, _u16_x4, _s16_x4, _f16_x4,
  // _bf16_x4, _u32_x4, _s32_x4, _f32_x4, _u64_x4, _s64_x4 and _f64_x4
  svint8x4_t svuzpq[_s8_x4](svint8x4_t zn) __arm_streaming;
  ```

### Streaming-compatible versions of standard routines

ACLE provides the following streaming-compatible functions,
with the same behavior as the standard C functions that they
are named after. All of the functions have external linkage.

``` c
  void *__arm_sc_memcpy(void *dest, const void *src, size_t n)
    __arm_streaming_compatible;

  void *__arm_sc_memmove(void *dest, const void *src, size_t n)
    __arm_streaming_compatible;

  void *__arm_sc_memset(void *s, int c, size_t n)
    __arm_streaming_compatible;

  void *__arm_sc_memchr(void *s, int c, size_t n)
    __arm_streaming_compatible;
```

### SVE2.1 and SME2 instruction intrinsics

> These intrinsics can only be called from non-streaming code if

Reviewer: I think this paragraph should go after the one below.

   svcount_t svpsel_lane_c8(svcount_t pn, svbool_t pm, uint32_t idx);
   ```

#### PTRUE, PFALSE

Initialise predicate-as-counter to all active or all inactive.

 ``` c
   // Variants are also available for _c16, _c32 and _c64 [SVE2.1 or SME2]
   svcount_t svptrue_c8();
   svcount_t svpfalse_c(void);
   ```

#### REVD

Reverse doublewords in elements.

 ``` c
   // All the intrinsics below are [SVE2.1 or SME]
   // Variants are available for:
   // _s8, _s16, _u16, _s32, _u32, _s64, _u64
   // _bf16, _f16, _f32, _f64
   svuint8_t svrevd[_u8]_m(svuint8_t zd, svbool_t pg, svuint8_t zn);
   svuint8_t svrevd[_u8]_z(svbool_t pg, svuint8_t zn);
   svuint8_t svrevd[_u8]_x(svbool_t pg, svuint8_t zn);
   ```
#### SQCVTN, SQCVTUN, UQCVTN

Multi-vector saturating extract narrow and interleave.

 ``` c
   // All the intrinsics below are [SVE2.1 or SME2]
   // Variants are also available for _u16[_s32]_x2 and _u16[_u32]_x2
   svint16_t svqcvtn_s16[_s32_x2](svint32x2_t zn);
   ```

#### SQRSHRN, UQRSHRN

Multi-vector saturating rounding shift right narrow and interleave

``` c
  // All the intrinsics below are: [SVE2.1 or SME2]
  // Variants are also available for _u16[_u32_x2]

>   svint16_t svqrshrn[_n]_s16[_s32_x2](svint32x2_t zn, uint64_t imm)

Author: Maybe I am missing something, but I believe this is done in line 12102.

   // Variants are also available for:
   // _s8, _s16, _u16, _s32, _u32, _s64, _u64
   // _bf16, _f16, _f32, _f64

>    svuint8_t svextq[_u8](svuint8_t zdn, svuint8_t zm, uint64_t imm);

Reviewer 4: OK.

  void svst1[_u16_x4](svcount_t png, uint16_t *rn, svuint16x4_t zt)
    __arm_streaming;

  // Variants are also available for _s16_x2, _f16_x2 and _bf16_x2
  void svst1_vnum[_u16_x2](svcount_t png, uint16_t *rn, int64_t vnum,
                           svuint16x2_t zt)
    __arm_streaming;

  // Variants are also available for _s16_x4, _f16_x4 and _bf16_x4
  void svst1_vnum[_u16_x4](svcount_t png, uint16_t *rn, int64_t vnum,
                           svuint16x4_t zt)
    __arm_streaming;

  // Variants are also available for _s32_x2 and _f32_x2
  void svst1[_u32_x2](svcount_t png, uint32_t *rn, svuint32x2_t zt)
    __arm_streaming;

  // Variants are also available for _s32_x4 and _f32_x4
  void svst1[_u32_x4](svcount_t png, uint32_t *rn, svuint32x4_t zt)
    __arm_streaming;

  // Variants are also available for _s32_x2 and _f32_x2
  void svst1_vnum[_u32_x2](svcount_t png, uint32_t *rn, int64_t vnum,
                           svuint32x2_t zt)
    __arm_streaming;

  // Variants are also available for _s32_x4 and _f32_x4
  void svst1_vnum[_u32_x4](svcount_t png, uint32_t *rn, int64_t vnum,
                           svuint32x4_t zt)
    __arm_streaming;

> // Variants are also available for _s64_x2 and _f64_x2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // Variants are also available for _s64_x2 and _f64_x2
```

   // _c8[_u64], _c16[_u64], _c32[_u64] and _c64[_u64]

>    svcount_t svwhilege_c8[_s64](int64_t rn, int64_t rm, uint64_t vl);

Reviewer 4: What about other `svwhile` builtins? Are they staying the same (and inconsistent with the new one) for historical reasons?
https://developer.arm.com/architectures/instruction-sets/intrinsics/#q=svwhile
